[Music]
we've heard the miraculous accounts from
survivors of Titanic painting a vivid
picture of that harrowing night they've
all given us their unique personal
experiences except for one her name was
Bertha Antonin meny and when she told
people about her life-changing cruise on
the unsinkable ship nobody believed her
her story was discovered more than 50
years later when her nephew found a box
in her closet with several clippings
photographs and letters so why did
everybody doubt her tale well there's a
reasonable explanation but I'll get into
that in a jiff first let's start from
the beginning
Mamie was born in Brussels on the 21st
of July 1887 growing up she admired the
luxurious life and decided to start
working towards achieving that lifestyle
she became a cabaret singer in Brussels
under the stage name Bella Villa
she was very talented her melodious
voice gained her a lot of attention all
around the country and newspapers
started writing articles about her that
was when she started becoming famous in
certain circles around Brussels
everything was going smoothly until she
turned 24 years old she didn't know it
at the time but her life was about to
change forever in the winter months of
1911 she met the love of her life
his name was Quig Baxter and he was a
professional hockey player from Montreal
Canada coincidentally Baxter already
made quite a name for himself just like
mania he was a star in the world of
hockey in 1907 however during a game he
had a bad accident that left him without
sight in his right eye which ended his
hockey career Baxter never gave up his
passion though so he embarked on a
coaching career instead in fact he was
the first person to have ever conducted
hockey tournaments in Paris one night
Baxter was vacationing in Brussels with
his mother and sister he'd already heard
about the Magnificent cabaret singer
with the enchanting voice and he went to
see her perform at a cafe the moment
meny walked onstage and their eyes met
she knew he was the one it was love at
first sight
Titanic's first journey from Southampton
to New York was very well promoted it
was boasted as the largest and most
luxurious ship in the world
so naturally the elites of Europe saw it
as an opportunity to take the deluxe
voyage when Baxter's mother heard about
the unsinkable ship she was determined
Baxter was going to return to Canada
with her on the Titanic in April of 1912
and that meant that his and mayonese
relationship would have to come to an
end the thought devastated him he
refused to leave Europe until the love
of his life went with him meanwhile
Baxter's mother had already booked two
adjoining first class cabins for herself
and her son be 58 and be 60 when the
time came Baxter couldn't bear the
thought of returning to Canada without
main aim so he secretly booked another
cabin for her numbers c90 which was
located right below his room in order to
make sure that nobody knew about it he
changed her name to mrs. Deville EA's
they got the idea to use that particular
surname from mayonese former partner who
was a British soldier they boarded the
ship and settled in as soon as they got
the opportunity meny and Baxter met one
another for a long walk on the deck they
plan to do this as often as they could
but unfortunately as we all know their
happiness didn't last long on the night
of the accident
Baxter was sitting in his room with his
sister when suddenly they felt the crash
and the ship stopped right then and
there they knew something wasn't right
his worried mother had it straight to
her children's rooms she asked her son
to go and ask why the ship had stopped
unexpectedly in the middle of the ocean
so he decided to step outside and check
it out just as he was turning to the
right he saw the ship's captain walking
talking to Bruce Ismay one of the chief
White Star Line officials Baxter stopped
them he asked is everything okay why has
the ship stopped to which the captain
replied there has been an accident but
everything is all right as soon as the
captain walked off his Mei approached
him and warned him he told Baxter to get
his family into an emergency lifeboat as
fast as he could without taking anything
with them that was when Baxter began to
worry he rushed to his room and followed
his Mayes instruction word-for-word he
alerted his mother and sister told them
to put on their coats and guided them to
lifeboat number six he then turned back
for main a and guided her through the
chaos to the lifeboat where his mother
and sister were already waiting his
family hadn't even known that she was on
board the Titanic or that they were a
couple to begin with so as soon as they
got to the lifeboat he reintroduced them
mamie thought that Baxter would be going
with them and when she found out he
wasn't she bought she immediately rushed
to get out of the lifeboat but back to
his mother stopped her then she tried to
use her jewellery as an excuse saying
she had forgotten it and wanted to go
back to get it but Baxter's mother
talked her out of it Baxter waved at his
family as they were lowered to the ocean
at 1:10 a.m. there were only 29 people
on board and things were tense among
them one of the men rowing wanted to
turn back and pick up more people while
the others believed it was too dangerous
lifeboat 6 was tied up with lifeboat 16
and it was the last to reach Carpathia
at 8:00 in the morning when they were
taken to New York they searched
extensively for Baxter but he was never
found his love and his family were
devastated after that meny moved in with
Baxter's family and stayed by their side
several months had passed since the
Titanic disaster and
were now sure that Baxter would never
show up so meny moved back to europe and
continued being a cabaret singer this
time it was in Paris she never got
married or had any children when she
retired she moved to a country house in
the suburbs of Brussels where she spent
the rest of her days she tried telling
her story to her family and her nephew a
few times but nobody ever believed her
meny recounted how she was on board the
Titanic with a Canadian millionaire but
that story seemed way too far-fetched to
be true and when her family did some
digging they never found her name on the
passenger list but of course that was
because a certain mrs. de Ville yays
presented false documents after she
passed away her nephew went to her house
and went through a few of her thanks
before long he discovered a mysterious
shoe box in the closet inside was all
the evidence to back up her unbelievable
story it contained pictures from when
she was on the Titanic letters she'd
exchanged and even old newspaper
articles that depicted the event that
was when her life changing story was
finally confirmed through her personal
belongings it would have been awesome to
hear meny share her experience of this
transatlantic tragedy firsthand but at
least now we know the rest of her story
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life